Andy Ninh
CSC 3350
Lab 3
a. To use the program, you would begin by doing the make command which will create the executable file. 
After creating the executable file, you would run it by doing the 
command: ./file_search <search term> <starting directory> which will allow you to find the search term
 of your choice in a selected directory. The parent in the program will start at the current directory 
 location and then find the selected file in given location, going through the different directory 
 paths as needed. Each thread in the program will only go through a quarter of the given length of the 
 provided array, due to it having only 4 threads total. The reason why this is like this would be for 
 each thread searching through the same amount of information in the provided array. 
 
b. The performance of the multi-threaded version of the program is one that takes a longer amount of time, 
compared to the original version. This is due to having to call directory paths and files recursively, 
going through each of the different threads. 
i. The multi-threaded version doesn’t show a 4x speedup because, it takes a recursive approach of searching 
through the directory and files, with each item being put into an array. Each thread will then revisit each 
array with all 4 threads and read the calculated divided index. In general, multi-threading with N threads 
does not automatically lead to Nx speedup because, of having to take additional time to set up the threading, 
to create the threads, along with the recursive time. 
ii. The performance of the multi-threaded version does depend on the directory structure that is being searched. 
This is due to the directory structure being iterated recursively, with the threaded implementation depending 
on the directory structure.
iii. The performance of the multi-threaded version could be improved if I managed the thread creation differently, 
because of how the threads are used. They are used globally when printing the array, instead of visiting paths 
during the recursion process. Threads could be used as part of the global array in a queue where the threads 
would add items to the queue as necessary. 
 
c. Running the same program twice in quick succession (usually results in better performance the second 
time, because of how the operating system stores some information from previous runs in the cache, allowing 
for a faster file access in the current and future runs over prior ones. 

